
What is Spark?
    Apache Spark is an open-source distributed data processing framework 
    used to process large amounts of data quickly across multiple computers (called a cluster).


What is PySpark?

    "PySpark is the Python API of Apache Spark that allows developers to process and analyze large-scale datasets using Python. 
    It distributes data across multiple machines and performs computations in parallel, making it much faster than single-machine 
    libraries like Pandas for large datasets. PySpark is widely used in Data Engineering for building ETL pipelines, batch processing, real-time analytics, and big data applications."

Difference between Hadoop and Spark

    1.Hadoop is a framework that provides distributed storage using HDFS and batch processing using MapReduce. 
      Spark is a distributed data processing engine that performs computations mainly in memory, making it much faster than Hadoop MapReduce
    2.Hadoop is commonly used for storing large datasets,
      while Spark is used for fast ETL pipelines, analytics, machine learning, and streaming


Apache Spark uses a master slave [driver-executor] architecture to coordinate distributed data processing accross a cluster of machines.
It relies on a central coordinator called the Driver. and multiple distributed workers are called Executors, which are connected via an external cluster Manager.


Core Architecture Components:

The Apache Spark cluster mode relies on 4 critical Components:

1.Driver Program:
    The master node and "Brain of the application". 
    It executes the main()  function, craetes the spark Session,translates user code into logical plans and schedules the task.

2.Cluster manager:
    An external service that alocates physical resources [CPU & Memory ] accross the application.
    Supported Manager includes spark standalone,Hadoop YARN,Kubernetes and Apache Mesos.


3.Worker Node:
    Physical or virtual machine in the cluster that host the execution process.

4.Executors:
    Long lives Java Virtual Machine [JVM] process running on worker nodes.They are responsible for executing the individual tasks and caching data 
    in Memory or disk.



SparkContext

    SparkContext is the low-level connection between your application and the Spark cluster.
    Earlier versions of Spark required creating a SparkContext directly.
    from pyspark import SparkContext
    sc = SparkContext()

SparkSession (Very Important)
    SparkSession is the entry point of every modern PySpark application
    Creates SparkContext automatically,Reads files,Creates DataFrames.

Execution Hierarchy:
    Spark breaks down data processing into a specific Hierarchy to scale task efficiently.


1.Application: The entire program submitted to clusters.
2.Job        : The highest  elements of execution, triggered exclusively when an Action [.count() , .collect()] is called Job.
3.Stage of JOB  [Every job has multiple stage]: A collection of tasks that can run in parallel. stages are divided at shuffle boundaries where data must be repartitioned accross the nodes.
4.Task [Every stage has multiple Task]: The smallest structural unit of work.each individual task proccesses exactly one data partition on a single thread inside an executor.


The Execution Workflow:

when we submit a script of Apache spark, the following engine proccesses your code using the following lifecycle:

1.Initialization:
    Your code starts the Driver and initiates a sparksession.

2.Resource Negotiation:
    The Driver connects to cluster Mnaager to request resources containers on workers nodes. 
    The manager launches  Executors in response.

3.Logical Planning & Optimization: 
    Transformation (like .filter()) use lazy evaluation,they are not executed immediately.instead they build a logical plan optimized by sparks built in catalyst optimizer.

4.DAG Creation:
    When an Action is called , the plan converts  into a Directed Acyclic Graph [DAG]  
    The DAG Scgedular breaks this Graph into execution stages and Physical tasks.


5.Task Lanching:
    The task scheduler distributes tasks to specific executes based on data locality.

6.collection:
    Execution processes data partition in memory ,exchange intermidiate data if shuffle is required , and stream final result back to the driver.


Narrow Transformation
    Definition: Each input partition contributes to only one output partition.
    No shuffle across the cluster.
    Fast and efficient because data stays local.
    Examples: map(), flatMap(), filter()

Wide Transformation
    Definition: Input partitions contribute to multiple output partitions.
    Requires shuffle (data moved across nodes).
    Slower due to network and disk I/O.
    Examples: groupByKey(), reduceByKey(), join()