.select()
.filter()
.groubBy()
.join()
.withColumn()
.show()
.Count()
.collect()
.first()
.write()


Transformation                              Action

.select()                                   .show()  withColumn() describe.show() write() first()
.filter()                                   .count()
.groubBy()
.join()

Transformation creates the execution plan     Action forces data preproccesing


In PySpark , operation on Distributed Datasets [RDD and Dataframes] are aplit into two main categories: Transformation and Action

The fundamental differenece lies in how they are executed. PySpark uses lazy Evaluation,meaning Transformation does not compute the results 
immediately. Instead they build a logical execution plan [Directed Acyclic Graph or DAG].The Computation only triggers when an Action is called .


1.PySpark Transformations

Transformations create a new Datasets from an existing one.
Because of lazy Evaluation , they do not modify the original data or immediately compute the results.

Two Type of Transformation:
1.Narrow Transformation:
    Data required to compute a single partition resies in a single partition of a parent RDD/Dataframes.
    No data movement accross the network [Shufling ] is required .
    
    .filter()/ .when(): Filter rows based on a given condition
    .select(): 
    .map()/flatmap(): Apply a  function to each element. map() returns one element per input
                        While flatmap() can returns multiple elements


2.Wide Transformation:
    Data required to compute a single partition may reside in multiple partition of the parent RDD/Dataframes.
    This requirs a Shufle,while moves the data accross the network and is performance heavy.

    .groubBy()
    .join()
    .distinct(): remove the duplicate rows
    .orderBy()/sort()

PySpark Actions:
    Action trigger the actual Computation of the execution plan build by the Transformations. They are executes the DAG 
    and either returns a value to the driver program or write data to a storage.

    .show()
    .collect(): return entire Datasets to the driver program
    .count()
    .first()/.head()
    .take(n): Returns the first n rows as a local list
    .write(): Saves the Dataframes content 