Version control system


VCS in software development and collaboration project used to track and manage
chnages in the source code

1.Track and records the change in the codebase,maintaining a structured project history
2.Allow multiple developers to collaborate on the same project with overwritting each other code.
3.Decelopers can access and update a central repository , where project files one stores.
4.Enable team to share updates and revert to earlier versions when needed.





Component of Version Control System:

1. Repository:
    Central Location that stores all the project files along with complete tracking history
    ,metadata like (author or commit message).


2.Revision:
    A specific version of your file or project, which can be identify using a unique ID.
    such as Hash or number.


3.Branches:
    A separate copy of your codebase used to develop features or fix bugs without affecting the main code.


4.Merging:
    The process of combining one branch feature into another by resolving conflicts if needed.


5.Commit:
    A snapshot of your codebase at a specific interval or time which is used to track 
    and manage project history.


Requirements for Version Control System:
    1.Tool : Git
    2.Host/Website : Github


step 1: Install Git and Github CLI application in your machine.
step 2: set path
step 3: Create a new folder/directoy in your machine as a new git repository.
step 4: Initiate it at a git repository git Init 
step 5: Make changes in the folder. Created a file
        git status: file has been include
        git add : file will be added to git to track
        git commit -m "First-commit": Commit the chnages done in the file

Create a new repository to push all the local chnage to it.
Github CLI to link our local repo to the github repository
    gh auth login
    gh repo Create

To track all the chnages in the file
    git add <file.name>

To ignore all the chnages,files we can mention in a file .gitignore
    .gitignore 
        .env

    our .env has some api key available we do not want track



Branching:
    To check branch and other informtion git.status 

    1. To create a new branch
        git branch <branch name>

    2. To create a new branch and switch to 
        git checkout -b <branch name>

    3.Only switch to the existing branch 
        git checkout <branch name>



Merge:
    1.Create a feature-branch
        git checkout -b feature branch

    2.update the code Branches
    
    3.switch to main branch
        git checkout main
        
        git pull origin main -> updated version of code in main branch
        
        git Merge feature-branch->Merge the new feature to the main branch
        
        git push origin main-> To push the new feature to the main branch


No merge conflict arises due to no chnage in other main Branch

conflict arrises when multiple people makes chnages in two or more Branches


