
function definition is a block of code that performs a specific task and can be reused whenever needed. Functions are defined using the def keyword,
followed by the function name, parameters (if any), and a colon. The body of the function is indented.

parameter:1.A parameter is a variable defined in a function’s signature.
	  2.It acts as a placeholder for the value that will be passed when the function is called.
		Example: def greet(name):   # 'name' is a parameter

Argument: 1.An argument is the actual value or data you pass into a function when calling it.
	  2.It fills the parameter defined in the function.
		Example: greet("Divya")   # "Divya" is the argument

Docstring: 1.A docstring (documentation string) is a special string literal used to explain what a function, class, or module does.
	   2.It is written inside triple quotes (""" ... """) right after the function definition.
		Example:def greet(name):
   				"""This function prints a greeting message with the given name."""
    				print("Hello", name)


Types of Functions:
1. built in function: always available in python . Ex: print()
2. User Defined function: Also called Custom function created by programmers to solve specific problem
3. lambda function: small, anonymous , one line function defined with help of lambda keyword, No need to define function name
4. Recursive function: functions that call itself to solve problem like factorial
    Mostly used in Divide and conquer problem and mathematical 


Argument Types:
1. positional Argument: Arguments must be passed in the correct order
2. Keyword: Arguments are passed by explicitly naming the parameter(ex: name="Divya")
3. Default: Parameters that use a fallback value of no value is provided
4. Arbitrary: Allows a function to accept a variable number of positional or keyword argument


Scope of Variable
1. Local: Defined inside a function and only accessible in a function
2. Global: Defined outside function and accessible throughout the entire script


Built in function:
1. print()
2. bin(): binary form of any number with prefix
3.type()
4.range()
5.pow()
6.len()
7.abs()
8.enumerate()

