Version control system


VCS in software development and collaboration project used to track and manage
changes in the source code

1.Track and records the change in the codebase,maintaining a structured project history
2.Allow multiple developers to collaborate on the same project with overwritting each other code.
3.Developers can access and update a central repository , where project files one stores.
4.Enable team to share updates and revert to earlier versions when needed.





Component of Version Control System:

1. Repository:
    Central Location that stores all the project files along with complete tracking history
    ,metadata like (author or commit message).


2.Revision:
    A specific version of your file or project, which can be identify using a unique ID.
    such as Hash or number.


3.Branches:
    A separate copy of your codebase used to develop features or fix bugs without affecting the main code.
    1.Main/Master branch available by default

4.Merging:
    The process of combining one branch feature into another by resolving conflicts if needed.


5.Commit:
    A snapshot of your codebase at a specific interval or time which is used to track 
    and manage project history.


Requirements for Version Control System:
    1.Tool : Git
    2.Host/Website : Github


step 1: Install Git and Github CLI application in your machine.
    for check version: git --version and gh --version
step 2: set path
step 3: Create a new folder/directoy in your machine as a new git repository.
step 4: Initiate it at a git repository :git init 
step 5: Make changes in the folder. Created a file
        
    


Commands:

Create a new repository to push all the local chnage to it.
To Create a new repository
    gh repo create my-repo-name

Github CLI to link our local repo to the github repository
    gh auth login
  
To track all the chnages in the file
    git status

To add file
    git add <file.name>

To add all file:
    git add .

To commit chnages:
    git commit -m "First-commit"

To push to Github
    git push -u origin main

To check log
    git log

To ignore all the chnages,files we can mention in a file .gitignore
    .gitignore 
        .env

    our .env has some api key available we do not want track



Branching:
    1.To check branch and other informtion
         git.status 

    2. To create a new branch
        git branch <branch name>
        Ex: git branch Test

    3. To create a new branch and switch to 
        git checkout -b <branch name>
        Ex: git checkout -b Test

    4.Only switch to the existing branch 
        git checkout <branch name>
        git checkout Test
    
    5.To Delete a branch
        git branch -d <branch name>
        Ex: git branch -d test

Merge:
    1.Create a branch & switch on that branch name feature
        git checkout -b feature branch
    
    2.switch to main branch
        git checkout main
      
    3.updated version of code in main branch  
        git pull origin main 

    4.Merge the new feature to the main branch
        git Merge feature-branch
        It added all code in branch "main" which we written in the branch named "feature"
    
    5.To push the new feature to the main branch
        git push origin main


No merge conflict arises due to no chnage in other main Branch

conflict arrises when multiple people makes chnages in two or more Branches



Rebase:
It  makes our commit track  in the linaer way
    git rebase


Task: 
    1.Create a local Repo 
    2.Create two branches , initiating having the same code
        dev: print("Hello dev")
        test: print("Hello dev")

    3.Change the code base in "test" branch as
        test: print("Hello test)

    4.Try to merge it with dev branch

    5.Handle the merge conflict by accepting both the lines in the final codebase