OOPS :
    1.Object Oriented programming is another way of organising code 
    that uses objects and classes to represent any real word entitities
    and behaviours
    2.We can say Blue print
    3.In Object has Attributes thing that has specific data and can perform certain actions using methods 

Use :
    1. use to organize code into classes and objects
    2. Supports Encapsulations to group data and method together.
    3. Enables Inheritance for Reusability and hierarcy
    4. It allows polymorphrism for flexible method implementation
    5. It Improves Modularity, Scalability and Maintability


Availables:

1. Classes:  Collection of objects which has blueprint for creating objects.
    or A class defines a set of atribute and methods that craete a objects (instances) can have.
    
    1.class : Keywords used to craete a class
    2.Attribute : variables that belongs to the class and 
    also always public and can be accessed using (.) dot operator
    
    Suntax:
        class Dog:
            species="Cat"
            def__init__(self,name,age):
                self.name=name
                self.age=age

    3.self: refers to the current object, allowing each object to store access its own data
    4.__init__: constructor

2. Objects: An objects is an instances in a class. It represents a specific
            information with implementation of the class and holds its own data.
            An objects consist of:

            1.State: It is represented by Attribute and reflects the properties of an object.
            2.Behaviour: It is represented by the methods of an objects and reflect the response of an object to other object
            3.Identity: It Gives a unique name to an object and enables an object to interact with object.
            
    Example:
        class Dog:
            species:"Canine"
            def__init__(self,name,age):
                self.name=name
                self.age=age

        #dog1 is an object
        dog1=Dog("Buddy",4)
        print(dog1.name)
        print(dog1.age)




Properties of OOPS or four pillars of OOPS

1.Inheritance:Child class can acquire properties and methods from the parent class.
2.Polymerphrism: Same operations can shows different Behaviors.
3.Encapsulation:Bundle our Data(atrributes) and method (functions) within a class,restricting access to some component to control interaction
4.Data Abstraction: Hides the internal Implementation details while exposing only the neccessary functions